# cs50p-portfolio
My best work from CS50P. Includes the final project, and 3 of my best assignments that were particularly interesting for me. 

# CLI Calendar App
#### Description: My CSP50P project, a text-based CLI Calendar Application.
## Overview
For my CS50P final project, I developed a Command Line Interface (CLI) Calendar Application. I chose this project because I am an avid user of digital calendars and wanted to challenge myself by building my own iteration from scratch using Python. My primary focus was to experiment with the logic of the calendar, rather than having persistent memory. Unlike traditional calendars, like Google Calendar, Apple Calendar, and so forth, that rely on external databases, CSVs, or txt files, this application is designed only to run in-memory. While this makes it more of a functional prototype intended for educational purposes and fun, it allowed me to focus deeply on mastering Python’s core data structures and logic flow without the overhead of file I/O management.
## File Structure and Purpose
* **project.py**: This is where the code of the CLI-based application goes. The user first gets greeted with a calendar-like interface made using the *tabulate* library. They then type in what action they wish to perform from the 3 given choices (create, delete, and view). If they do not type in one of the three options, the program will remind them that they will have to choose between the 3 options. If the user does type in a valid response, they will be asked a series of questions to act. For example, if they choose to create an event, they will have to type in the day on which they want the event to be, the time frame, the name of the event, and the description. Each of the questions is asked in order, and each response gets checked by the application to make sure it is correctly formatted. Similarly, the delete action will require the user to input the day and the event they wish to delete. The view action will require the user to type in the day and a time. Once they perform each action, the calendar will update and print itself again, and the user will then be prompted with whether or not they wish to exit the program. If they do, they are required to type in Y, or y, and if they do not wish to exit, N, or n, the program does have error checking. If they respond with Y, or y, the program exits using sys. exit. Otherwise, they are looped back to the start, where they will be greeted with 3 actions choices. The memory of the calendar will persist as long as the user does not exit the program. 3 major functions out of many are (is_valid_time, is_valid_event, and get_military_minutes). As input, is_valid_time takes in a time, which is given by the user. The function uses REGEX (Regular Expressions) to see if the user input is valid; if it is, the program will clean up the response and pass the data to another function. If the time is not valid, then the function will reject it. To convert the time into something more usable is the get_military_minutes function, which gets its input from the is_valid_time function, which converts it into minutes, using operators and conversions. When dealing with overlaps, is_valid_event steps in, where it takes as input time and the day of an event, and parses through lists and dictionaries to return a boolean value of whether an event overlaps or not.
* **test_project.py**: This is where the test for project.py goes. This file tests the 3 major functions explained above. Many of my test cases tested regular inputs, then an input that the program had to clean up to understand, then a complicated input, and then perhaps a couple of edge cases, and similar but incorrect input. Using this methodology, I was able to write tests that help validate my code. However, this test was mostly written after the code was already tested multiple times using other methods, so no bugs were discovered.
* **requirements.txt**: This file only contains one library, the tabulate library, which was the heart of formatting data in the calendar. The tabulate library allowed a clean and succinct way to format the data into a calendar-like grid. Many of the lists and dictionaries in the code were built around this library.
## Design Choices
* **tabulate**: The tabulate library was the centerpiece of the project, and was a library I was already pretty familiar with because of previous problems requiring its usage. Also, like previously stated, it offered a quick and simple way to format information into a grid-like format, which made it so much easier to edit and change data.
* **dictionary usage**: Dictionaries were used to store data in 2 main ways. The first of which was to allow a way to access data using a time-like format, which made accessing data more intuitive. And the second of which was that a lot of data required to be converted to integers, and a dictionary provided a way to directly convert a string into an integer equivalent.
* **create, delete, view**: These three actions were once two actions, but a simpler version would be too simple and not very complex, so I decided to add events that had names and descriptions, which required the 3rd action.
* **use of regex**: The use of regex was a topic that I knew pretty well, and also could be incorporated nicely into my program, namely through input validation.
* **color**: I decided to use color as a functionality because I ran into a problem that, if 2 events were right next to each to other, you wouldn't know where one event started and ended, so I decided to create a random color generator to color in the time indicators (tilde) so that one could distinguish the stopping and starting of events.
* **centering**: I decided to center the event titles for purely cosmetic purposes.
* **instructions**: I tried to be succinct with all the instructions I give, and give them in similar formats, and I decided upon giving a lot of instructions because the calendar operation is very text-based and user-response heavy, so they must know what to type.
* **tilde**: I used tilde because it flows nicely with other tilde's (~~~~) and it gives a wavey, border look to the calendar, and it signifies the passing of time.
* **input correction**: I used a lot of input corrections because, since this is a text-based application, I wanted the users to still have some breathing room. So capitalization, mainly, is largely taken care of, as well as some other grammatical jargon.
* **CLI vs. Web**: I chose to build a CLI application rather than a web-based application largely because I wanted to focus on the logic rather than the formatting and website-building process. Also, building a website would mean learning copious amounts of new information, which wasn't my goal for this project.
## Challenges/Bugs
I built a simple version of the project first, one that had no viewing, no event names, and only displayed if a spot was occupied or free. During that part of the process, no real bugs or challenges surfaced, since it was pretty simple; however, a big jump was when I decided to add events, which brought 2 more global dictionaries and more data. In addition, I also decided to create descriptions. This led to many logically errors, and my commitment for fixing the users grammar created bugs, because of the mismatch between responses, for example if I titlecased something, I have to remember that when the user types something, and I have to compare the two pieces of data, I have to fix them in the same way, or else, it will always be different. Another challenge was the edge cases, especially because the infrastructure I decided to build this on heavily required a number-based system, yet the user input was mainly text. This caused a lot of logical operations to convert the user's text into an integer or a number. For the most part, "regular" numbers worked; edge cases like 12:00 AM or 12:00 PM had to be singled out as their own case, because of their unique properties in the time scale. This led to a lot of changes in the end, and had I had to do this again, I would certainly plan everything out.


